#summary About Mumblebot
#labels Featured
=Table Of Contents=
<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

*NB: mumblebot is still very much in development, and isn't really even alpha code yet.  Use it at your own risk.* (and if you do, submit bug reports, please)

= Introduction =
Mumblebot is an attempt to create a bot that will sit on a Mumble server and respond to messages, much like an IRC bot.  The original motivation to write mumblebot came from a discussion on how to split <I>N</I> players into <I>M</I> teams in somewhat of a random fashion, without having to trust someone's coin flipping or dice rolling or whatever.  The problem was solved with the [TeamMakerScript TeamMaker script].

= QuickStart =
Install [http://code.google.com/p/protobuf/ protobuf] if you don't already have it installed.

Either unpack the [http://google.com latest tarball TODO: link] or [https://code.google.com/p/mumblebot/source/checkout checkout the source].  In the directory it creates run the following command to connect mumblebot to your server:
{{{
./mumblebot  --server=<your server> --scriptdir=`pwd`/scripts 
}}}
You'll have to replace `<your server>` with your server's IP address or hostname, of course.

If all went as planned, you should find a new user on your server named mumblebot.  If something went wrong, have a look at mumblebot's options:
{{{
./mumblebot -h
}}}
More details about each option can be found in [Configuration].

Once you've got it all set up nicely, have a look at [Installation] for more information on how to install mumblebot.

= Windows =
Mumblebot will _probably_ work under Windows.  You'll probably have to specify every dicterory explicitly, and the `scriptwd` and `scriptdir` options may not work quite like the documentation says they should.  Alternatively, you can grab a copy of [http://www.openbsd.org OpenBSD] and install it in a VM.

= Problems? =
If you have issues with mumblebot, you can (sometimes) find the author hanging out on `#mumble` on `irc.freenode.net` under the nick `MagisterQuis`.  Failing that submit an issue to the [https://code.google.com/p/mumblebot/issues/ issue tracker].